[RFC] Archive the CF-on-K8S working group (#1560)
cloudfoundry/community: toc/rfc/rfc-draft-archive-cf-on-k8s-wg.md

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Archive the CF on K8S working group
- Start Date: 2026-07-10
- Author(s): @georgethebeatle @danail-branekov
- Status: Draft <!-- Acceptable values: Draft, Approved, On Hold, Superseded -->
- RFC Pull Request: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/1560
- Related RFCs:
- Affected Component(s): Korifi

## Summary

Archive the `CF on K8S` working group

## Problem

In the past couple of months we have been observing diminishing community interest in the [Korifi](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/korifi) project:
- No communication on the slack channel
- No attendees on community meetings
- No new issues, PRs or feature requests being raised
- We are not aware of any productive deployments or plans of such ones in future

Korifi maintainers (currently three SAP employees) no longer have the capacity to continue maintaining the project. Therefore, unless someone else is willing to take over, the `CF on K8S` working group does not make sense any more.

> ## Proposal

Reviewer: Should https://tutorials.cloudfoundry.org/ also be updated to not forward to a deprecated project? Maybe to kind-deployment instead?

Author: makes sense. Does that have to be in the RFC? Could you suggest how to update it if so?

Reviewer 2: Maybe it is a followup task to this RFC, but what should be displayed on https://www.cloudfoundry.org/ ?

Reviewer 3: In https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/1560#discussion_r3578090285 I proposed adding in scope the update of the  https://www.cloudfoundry.org/. In my opinion it should be a followup task for cf-on-kind to contribute  to  https://www.cloudfoundry.org/.

On accepting the RFC (after public discussion and final comment period):

- Introduce an archival notice and archive Korifi github repositories:
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry/korifi
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry/korifi-ci
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry/intro-to-korifi
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry/korifi-website
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry/korifi-sample-app
- Delete the [CF-on-K8s-WG GCP project](https://console.cloud.google.com/welcome?project=cf-on-k8s-wg)
- Delete the `CFF-korifi` AWS account (accountID: `007801690126`)

> - Delete the [`CF-on-K8S` working group](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/working-groups/cf-on-k8s.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Delete the [`CF-on-K8S` working group](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/working-groups/cf-on-k8s.md)
- Delete Korifi references like tutorials or mentioning from   https://www.cloudfoundry.org/
```

## Alternatives

> The [`kind-deployment`](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/kind-deployment) project provides a simple and fast way to run Cloud Foundry on a local kind cluster. The project does not seem to have the goal of supporting real k8s cluster on its roadmap, however it covers one of the Korifi use cases - quick and cheap local CF API setup.

Reviewer 3: According to the [cf-on-kind](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/35ddcbb326f4cc7e41f8dba2cef027928b334f81/toc/rfc/rfc-0049-cf-on-kind.md?plain=1#L38-L44) RFC the long term vision is to support real k8s clusters. That is why I would suggest to update this. 
```suggestion
The [`kind-deployment`](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/kind-deployment) project provides a simple and fast way to run Cloud Foundry on a local kind cluster. While it currently focuses on quick and cheap local CF API setup, covering one of the Korifi use cases, its long-term vision, as outlined in the [cf-on-kind RFC](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/35ddcbb326f4cc7e41f8dba2cef027928b334f81/toc/rfc/rfc-0049-cf-on-kind.md?plain=1#L38-L44), is to support real Kubernetes clusters.
```
